Windows cmd : https://github.com/emel-kayaci/cmd-cheatsheet


Trilliant offers a universal communications platform that is at the convergence of the smart grid, smart city, and global Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) applications. We bring together multi-technology solutions, global capabilities, and mission-critical communications to deliver future-proof solutions.

We are a device-agnostic, integrated, multi-technology communication platform that provides flexibility to balance technological capabilities with economic needs. Trilliant is committed to best-in-class solutions that empower our customers and their customers to connect to the world of things.

We are an equal-opportunity employer offering comprehensive benefits and compensation packages with a selection of insurance programs. We have dynamic and collaborative work environments with some of the brightest employees in the world. We invest in people and provide opportunities for our employees to grow hand in hand with our business.

Job Description:

Trilliant is currently hiring a Systems Integration Engineer who will report to the Director of Customer Operations. The Systems Integration Engineer will be responsible for providing professional services as a key member of the Trilliant solution delivery team, focusing on the quality of the deliverables.

Job Responsibilities:

Install and configure Trilliant software
Troubleshoot and resolve system issues in customer environments
Test end to end HES to Meter integration
Perform informal training to customer user groups on use and maintenance of software
Participate in project teams deploying Trilliant software and other IT components. In most cases, the software implementation will be part of a larger Trilliant technology deployment involving large scale (>1Million devices) networks
Support the overall Project Director\Manager\ System Integration Lead as needed in project management activities
Contribute to business process analysis and design, deployment planning and execution, training development and delivery activities
Interface with internal and client team members to complete project activities and required deliverables
Develop expertise related to the utility industry and the Trilliant solution
Other duties as required
Job Requirements:

5+ years hands on experience with implementation and testing complex AMI systems
Experience with Smart Meter and DLMS/COSEM
Attention to technical detail
Strong troubleshooting skills and a tenacious approach to issue resolution
Experience in the Utility, Smart Grid, AMI or Energy Management field is a plus
Capable of communicating effectively to both business and technical resources
Ability to excel in a dynamic, high growth environment
Broad working knowledge of enterprise systems technology including – Databases – Oracle, MySQL; Applications Development platforms – Java, XML; and Networking – Enterprise Security, Firewalls, TCP/IP; Operating Systems – Linux and Windows
Competency with Word, Excel, PowerPoint, SharePoint, MS project and similar business tools
Experience with Kubernetes and Docker is a plus
Must be able to travel up to 75% of the time
Education & Certification:

A bachelor’s degree in computer engineering, Computer Science, Information Systems Management or a relevant discipline
Trilliant Values

PASSIONATE– We find the right solutions for customers and exceed their expectations.

ACCOUNTABLE- We work smartly and tackle problems with urgency to get the job done.

CONFIDENT– We look to the future and partner with each other to deliver world-class solutions.

ENERGIZED- We are excited and support the growth and direction of Trilliant.

At Trilliant, we value diversity and are committed to fostering an inclusive environment. To help us enhance the diversity of our candidate pool and meet reporting requirements, we invite you to voluntarily share your demographic information. Participation is entirely optional and will not affect your employment opportunities in any way. We will not access or use this information during the hiring process.